Readme for Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Diagnostics (#4674)
dotnet/extensions: src/Libraries/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Diagnostics/README.md

# Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Diagnostics

> Telemetry support for HTTP Client that allows tracking latency and enriching and redacting log output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Telemetry support for `HttpClient` that allows tracking latency and enriching and redacting log output.
```

Author: Applied, thanks!

</ItemGroup>
```

## Usage Example

### HTTP Client Logs Enrichment and Redaction

> These components enable enriching and redacting HTTP Client request logs. They remove built-it HTTP Client logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These components enable enriching and redacting `HttpClient` request logs. They remove built-it HTTP Client logging.
```

Reviewer: Only HttpClient instances created with the IHttpClientFactory benefit from these features, correct?

Author: Unfortunately, yes.

Author: Applied the suggestion, thanks!

> In order to use the redaction feature, you need to reference the `Microsoft.Extensions.Compliance.Redaction` package.

Author: This is non-trivial and we need to improve discoverability of this (reference redaction package in `Http.Diagnostics` package?). I will create a work item to track that

Author: Created #4675

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think we should reference the Redaction package automatically. Even when it is not used directly, the idea would be for folks referencing this package to be able to look at your sample code from the README and use it, but if we don't include the package reference they would get an error in the call to AddRedaction.

Reviewer 2: That said, I agree with you we can fix this in a separate change.

The services can be registered using the following methods:

```csharp
public static IServiceCollection AddExtendedHttpClientLogging(this IServiceCollection services);
public static IServiceCollection AddExtendedHttpClientLogging(this IServiceCollection services, IConfigurationSection section);
public static IServiceCollection AddExtendedHttpClientLogging(this IServiceCollection services, Action<LoggingOptions> configure);
public static IServiceCollection AddHttpClientLogEnricher<T>(this IServiceCollection services) where T : class, IHttpClientLogEnricher;
```

For example:

```csharp
var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);

// Register IHttpClientFactory:
builder.Services.AddHttpClient();

// Register redaction services:

> builder.Services.AddRedaction();

Author: I tempted to include that as well, but wasn't sure about it. I will add the line, thanks!

> builder.Services.AddRedaction();

Author: Done, thanks!

// Register redaction services:
builder.Services.AddRedaction();

// Register named HttpClient:
var httpClientBuilder = builder.Services.AddHttpClient("MyNamedClient");

// Configure named HttpClient to use logging enrichment & redaction:
httpClientBuilder.AddExtendedHttpClientLogging();

var host = builder.Build();
```

### Tracking HTTP Request Client Latency

These components enable tracking and reporting the latency of HTTP Client request processing.

The services can be registered using the following methods:

```csharp
public static IServiceCollection AddHttpClientLatencyTelemetry(this IServiceCollection services);
public static IServiceCollection AddHttpClientLatencyTelemetry(this IServiceCollection services, IConfigurationSection section);
public static IServiceCollection AddHttpClientLatencyTelemetry(this IServiceCollection services, Action<HttpClientLatencyTelemetryOptions> configure);
```

For example:

```csharp
var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);

// Register IHttpClientFactory:
builder.Services.AddHttpClient();

// Register redaction services:
builder.Services.AddRedaction();

// Register latency context services:

> builder.Services.AddLatencyContext();

Author: This was also non-trivial as DI simply throws an exception if I forget to add this line. We definitely need to improve this.

Author: Tracked under #4675
